---
title: 'v2.1.0'
description: 'We provides the means for the collection, organization and computerized retrieval of knowledgeand Lightweight Data Forwarder for Linux, BSD, macOS and Windows.'
url: "/announcements/v2.1.0/"
release_date: 2023-04-19
publishdate: 2023-04-19
ver: v2.1.0
herobg: "/images/hero@2x.jpg"
latestVer: true
---

###### KNOWLEDGE BASE

### Release Notes v2.0.0

[Fluent Bit](https://fluentbit.io) is a Fast and Lightweight Data Processor and Forwarder for Linux, BSD and OSX. We are proud to announce the availability of **Fluent Bit v2.1.0**.

For people upgrading from previous versions you **must read** the Upgrading Notes section of our documentation:

[https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/installation/upgrade_notes](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/installation/upgrade_notes)

#### Introduction

Fluent Bit v2.0 is the start of the new stable series of the project. During the last months our primary focus has been around extending support for Metrics, Traces and improving performance, among many others.

#### News

[Fluent Bit](https://fluentbit.io) v2.1.0 is the stable release!, new changes on this version:

<br>

### Hot Reload Support
    Fluent Bit's new hot reload support allows users to reload the configuration without stopping the service. This can be triggered through the SIGHUP signal or through the new /api/v2/reload HTTP endpoint.

### Convert your Logs to metrics

The "logs to metrics" functionality in Fluent Bit allows users to convert logs into metrics. This feature enables users to extract information from log data and create metrics such as counters, gauges, and histograms. The logs are parsed, and the desired metrics are extracted based on defined patterns. Once extracted, the metrics are formatted into a native metric payload and can be sent to the desired destination, such as a monitoring system. This functionality provides users with greater flexibility in how they analyze and utilize log data, and can be particularly useful for monitoring and troubleshooting purposes.

### Metrics Collection Extended

__Linux__

The node_exporter metrics plugin for Linux has been extended with new features and enhancements in Fluent Bit's latest release. These improvements include a more detailed filesystem metrics collector and the addition of a textfile collector, which can collect Prometheus text metrics from a file. Additionally, Fluent Bit 2.1 introduces a new feature that allows users to configure different scraping intervals for Linux collectors. With these new features, Fluent Bit provides users with a more customizable and comprehensive monitoring solution for Linux-based systems.

__Windows__

Fluent Bit's Windows exporter metrics plugin has been updated with new features and improvements. This update includes extended support for WMI metrics, enabling users to collect more detailed information from Windows systems. In addition, users can now configure the scrape interval for collectors, allowing for greater flexibility in how often metrics are collected. Furthermore, Fluent Bit now offers general support for Windows on ARM64, enabling users to monitor a wider range of Windows systems.

### Log Metadata Support

In this latest release we introduced metadata support for Logs, providing users with more enriched and customizable log data. Prior to this update, Fluent Bit's data model supported only basic content such as the tag, timestamp, and event/record. However, with the addition of metadata support, users can now attach additional information to their logs, such as context-specific details or additional tags.

### Podman Container Metrics

[Podman](https://podman.io) is a container engine for Linux-based systems that provides a lightweight, non-daemon container environment. It is a popular alternative to Docker for container management and offers advantages such as better security and performance. With Fluent Bit's latest release, a new plugin has been added to collect Podman container metrics. This feature allows users to collect and monitor detailed information about their Podman containers, such as CPU and memory usage, network activity, and more. By providing support for Podman container metrics, Fluent Bit extends its monitoring capabilities to a wider range of container management systems, enabling users to more effectively monitor and manage their containerized applications.

{{< contributor-list >}}
#### Contributors

On every release, there are many people involved doing contributions on different areas like bug reporting, troubleshooting, documentation and coding, without these contributions from the community, the project won’t be the same and won’t be in the good shape that it is now. So THANK YOU! to everyone who takes part of this journey!

{{< /contributor-list >}}

#### Join us

We want to hear about you, our community is growing and you can be part of it!, you can contact us at:

* Github: [http://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit](https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit)
* Slack: [http://slack.fluentd.org](http://slack.fluentd.org)
* Twitter: [@fluentbit](https://twitter.com/fluentbit)
